- [Instructor] So, at the
end of the last video,
we got this error that we
couldn't connect to database,
and that was because we haven't
got a suitable jdbc driver,
and if you recall, we actually
set up the jdbc driver
in the previous application,
but we haven't done it for this one,
so let's go ahead and
actually do that now.
So, I'm gonna come over here
and click on the project.
Right click.
I can open Module Settings,
going to go to Libraries,
click on plus,
click on or select Java,
and the actual drive file
is in the Downloads folder,
sqlite-jdbc.
That's the driver we have
previously downloaded.
I'm gonna add that to this library,
and you can see that
it's going to be added
to music UI, which is
our current application,
our project.
Click on OK.
Click on OK again, and that's the driver
now added to the class path,
so we should now be able to run it again.
Now, just before I do run it, though,
note here that, because we've copied
the Datasource dot java file,
we've copied all the information
including the path, so the
actual path, at the moment,
is pointing to our previous project,
the database in that directory,
and if you recall, we talked
about, if you're on Windows,
selecting the path, so you
may want to update this path
or just know that you're
using the database
that's in that other project.
So I'm going to leave it on this default,
calling it the music folder,
which was, again, the
previous application,
but just keep that in
mind if you're wondering
where the database is.
It's actually grabbing
that because we've copied
the Datasource dot java file.
It's using the same directory
or the connexions string
pointing to that database.
Alright, so let's go back to main.
If we run it again, now,
we should find that things will work okay.
Okay, this time the
error's now disappeared,
because we've added the
jdbc driver for SQLite
to our class path, and you can see that
the interface has appeared.
Alright, so when the application starts,
what we want to do is
display all the artists
in the artists table.
Now, it's also possible that the user
might explicitly ask to see,
or the artists after they've performed,
some other query,
so consequently, we need
to query all the artists
when the application starts,
and also, potentially, in
response to user input.
Now, remember that we always
wanna perform long tasks
on a background thread,
not on the main javafx application thread,
and if you recall from the
thread section of this course,
that when we want to
run background threads
from a javafx application,
we need to use helper classes
in the javafx dot concurrent package.
So, I'm gonna perform the following steps,
not necessarily, though, in the order
that I'm gonna read them out.
Firstly, we wanna create a task
to perform the database action,
the query, the insert,
or whatever we're doing.
Secondly, we want to initialise the task
with values required
to perform the action,
if that's necessary.
Third, we want to implement
the task dot core method
to perform the action.
Fourth, we want to bind the core results
to the table view's items property,
and then finally, we
want to invoke the task.
Now, because we may need to
use this task from two places,
at start up and when
the user explicitly asks
to see all artists, we're not going to use
an anonymous task class
that we create in response to user input,
and you'll see an example of this later.
What we're gonna do is
we'll add a get all artists
task class to the controller.
So, let's go ahead and add that,
so I'm just gonna close this down.
So, we're going back to our controller,
and what we're going to do
is add the method in there.
Alright, so let's add this class,
the get all artists task
class to the controller,
so I'm going to add the class below
the public class controller code,
and we're gonna call
this one, type in class,
and GetAllArtistsTask,
and that's extending
tasks, Task, I should say,
which is from the javafx dot concurrent.
Okay, then we're gonna
override the core method,
but we do wanna change
this around a little bit,
so we wanna actually make
this an observable list
that it's going to be returning.
So, instead of object, it's gonna be
ObservableList,
and it's gonna be list up artist objects,
so Artists, and we might need to, right,
have the exception there, so
I'm just gonna remove that,
so as instead of protected, also,
we'll just make that public
for simplicity, so public.
It's returning an observable
list of artist objects.
The core method is still the right one,
and in terms of what
we're gonna return here,
instead of returning null,
we're going to return FXCollections
dot observableArrayList,
and I'll put that on the next line.
It's going to be Datasource
dot getInstance,
getting our singleton dot queryArtists,
and we're going to do a Datasource
order by sending, so order, underscore,
by, underscore, ask is
what we wanna select there.
So, that's what this method's
ultimately gonna call,
and again, the reason that we're creating
a separate class here and
putting it in the controller
dot java file is we may
need to use this task
in two places.
Firstly, at startup,
but also when the user explicitly
asks to see all artists,
so that's why we're not using
an anonymous task class.
Alright, so the class, as you can see,
had to extend task,
and if we wanna use data
binding to populate the table,
the core method, which we've reconfigured,
has to return an
observable list of artists,
and you saw me use the correct
javafx dot collections
class when importing.
That's obviously very important,
and you can confirm that by checking
the import C on line three.
Alright, so we've
overridden the core method
to call the query artist method
in our Datasource dot java file.
Now, that method, if you
recall, returns a list.
Now, we don't wanna change it
to return an observable list,
because that would violate the separation
between the model and UI code.
Instead, the tasks
creating an observable list
from the list that query
artists method returns,
so we're doing that by
calling the FXCollections
dot observableArrayList passing
in the list that is returned
from our Datasource,
which then, ultimately, will
give us an observable list.
Now, in a previous video,
I said that we can use
the model classes as is,
and that would be true
if we didn't want to
take advantage of data binding,
but here, we do actually want
to take advantage of that,
so consequently, we do need
to make one small change
to the artist class to achieve that,
so instead of storing the
artist name in a string,
we need to store it as a
simple string property.
Now, this doesn't violate
the model UI separation,
because simple string property
isn't a UI specific class.
Now, we could have used
it all along, actually.
We'll do the same for
the artist ID, though,
even though we're not displaying it.
Now, because the fields
will now be properties,
the getter and setter methods
are all gonna change as well,
so let's go over to the artist
class and make those changes.
So, at the moment, you can
see that we've got them set up
as private, as an int
and a string for the ID
and the name and the artist class,
but we're gonna change that to a simple
integer property,
and then a simple
string property,
so for the ID and the name,
you can see that we've returned that,
and consequently, we
also need to change the
getters and setters, so for the ID,
we're going to pass in a simple property
and a simple integer
property, and return the ID.
Likewise for the setting.
We're going to get a
simple integer property,
and likewise for the string as well.
We're going to return the
simple string property
and when we're setting it,
we're going to return the
simple string property.
Alright, so that's our
artist class updated,
and again, we're only doing this
because we want to use data binding.
Since this is a simple application,
if we wanted to keep our model classes
exactly as they were,
then we could do that,
and we would explicitly
then set the table items
when the task completes.
Now, there are two ways
we could set the items.
Now, I covered the first
way in the threading section
of the course.
We could call our core
platform dot run later,
when the query artist
method returns its results,
and in the runnable we
passed to run later,
we could set the table items,
artistTable dot getItems
dot setAllArtistResults.
Now, I also mentioned in
the other threading section
that we can do more with
tasks than we covered,
including running code, when
the core method completes.
Now, to do that, we need to
call task dot set on succeeded,
and it actually wants an event handler.
In our case, though, the
most straightforward way
to pass the code we want to execute
is to use a lambda, so we're
gonna do something like this.
We're going to do task dot setOnSucceeded
and create our lambda.
Gonna be artistTable dot getItems
dot setAll
artistResults.
That's ultimately what
we're gonna be doing.
We're making this a
little bit easier to call
when the core method completes.
Alright,
so basically, what I'm getting at here is
whenever data binding makes sense,
it's best to use it,
'cause then we don't have to do anything
when the task completes.
It's all handled automatically.
Now, we have to do one more step
for data binding to work, though.
We have to map the name
field in the artist class
to the name column in the table.
If you recall from the threading videos,
that we accomplished this by
adding a cell value factory
to the table column, so
let's go ahead and do that
in our FXML file,
so we're gonna look at
adding a cellValueFactory
for the artist name.
So, we've got our table column here
for our artistTable name,
so to achieve this, we can
actually just close off
that ending tag there,
and under the table column,
we wanna add a cellValueFactory, so it's
cellValueFactory,
and then we wanna add
a propertyValueFactory
so propertyValueFactory
property equals and it's
going to record name,
and then we need to close
off our table column.
So, basically, we've added
a propertyValueFactory
for the name, and that
maps to the name field
in the artist class.
So, now that we've done that,
we can add a method to the controller
that gets the artists.
Let's go back to the controller.
We're gonna add some code in
the controller class itself,
so firstly, we need a
reference to the artistTable,
so that's gonna be @FXML,
then we want a private TableView,
which is a list of artists.
We'll call it artistTable,
and the actual method is
going to be public void
listArtist,
and then we need to create our task,
so it's going to be task.
We want that ObservableList
of artist objects.
Task is equal to new GetAllArtistsTask.
That's calling the class
that we've defined,
or at least instantiating it,
so we're creating a new task object,
and then we wanna do artistTable
dot itemsProperty
dot bind,
and task dot valueProperty.
So, you can see that we've
created a new task object
on line 17, then on line 18,
we're binding the result of the task,
in this case, the artistsObservableList,
to the table view's items property,
so they're actually bound to each other.
Alright, so let's finish the video here.
In the next video, we'll start looking at
how this is going to be invoked,
because the controller isn't created
until the FXML is loaded,
so we have to figure out how
we're gonna get that to work,
so let's work on that in the next video.